Mariadb skysql initial integration request (#2069)
DataDog/integrations-extras: mariadb_skysql/README.md

# Agent Check: MariaDB SkySQL

## Overview

> This check monitors [MariaDB SkySQL][1]. SkySQL is the only database-as-a-service that combines the ease and innovation of MariaDB with the limitless scalability, high performance and availability, and the security of the cloud.. Build faster, deploy easily, and manage all of your databases from a single pane via DataDog.  Designed for a hybrid and multi-cloud future, built on Kubernetes, and engineered for mission-critical transactional and analytical deployments, it’s the database-as-a-service you’ve been waiting for.  Ensure your data and cloud scale to your innovating data utilization needs, in an efficient, economical manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This check monitors [MariaDB SkySQL][1]. SkySQL is a database-as-a-service that combines the ease and innovation of MariaDB with the limitless scalability, high performance and availability, and the security of the cloud. With it, you can build faster, deploy more easily, and manage all your databases from a single view within Datadog. SkySQL is designed for a hybrid and multi-cloud future, built on Kubernetes, and engineered for mission-critical transactional and analytical deployments. Enable this integration to ensure your data and cloud scale to your innovating data utilization needs in an efficient and economical manner.
```

> This check monitors [MariaDB SkySQL][1]. SkySQL is the only database-as-a-service that combines the ease and innovation of MariaDB with the limitless scalability, high performance and availability, and the security of the cloud.. Build faster, deploy easily, and manage all of your databases from a single pane via DataDog.  Designed for a hybrid and multi-cloud future, built on Kubernetes, and engineered for mission-critical transactional and analytical deployments, it’s the database-as-a-service you’ve been waiting for.  Ensure your data and cloud scale to your innovating data utilization needs, in an efficient, economical manner.

Reviewer 2: The overview should not include marketing copy. The overview should include: 

1. What does Syksql do in 1-2 sentences? 
2. What will customers get from this integration?
3. What types of data sent in and the value of the data (how does this data help them)?

Author: @rtrieu and @emarsha94. Thanks for the suggestions. We will update the overview accordingly.

## Setup

### Installation

To install the MariaDB SkySQL check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit]
(https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit)
 on any machine.

2. Run `ddev release build mariadb_skysql` to build the package.

3. [Download the Datadog Agent][2].

4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and
 run `datadog-agent integration install -w

>  path/to/mariadb_skysql/dist/<ARTIFACT_NAME>.whl`.

Reviewer 2: Do customers know what the artifact name is?

Reviewer 2: Please include the exact install command for customers to run

Author: Will add the wheel file name.

### Configuration

1. Edit the `mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] to start collecting your MariaDB [metrics](#metric-collection). See the [sample mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

2. [Restart the Agent][5].

### Validation

1. [Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `mariadb_skysql` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by MariaDB SkySQL.

### Service Checks

See [service_checks.json][8] for a list of service checks provided by MariaDB SkySQL.

### Events

MariaDB SkySQL does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

> Need help? Contact [Datadog support][9].

Reviewer 2: This should Mariadb support email alias

Author: Yep. Will update.

> [1]: **LINK_TO_INTEGRATION_SITE**

Reviewer: Hi @mariadb-BorisBesky, can you please replace this with a working URL? Thanks!

Author: Yes. Will do.

# Agent Check: MariaDB SkySQL

## Overview

This check monitors [MariaDB SkySQL][1]. SkySQL is a multi-cloud database-as-a-service offering from MariaDB Plc.

> Integration with Datadog allows full monitoring of all your MariaDB SkySQL server deployments: Enterprise Server (Single and Replicated), Xpand, Columnstore, as well as MaxScale. Database administrators can track system resource metrics, such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization in addition to database specific telemetry such as query performance, connections, threads, cluster, replication status, and many others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The MariaDB SkySQL integration allows full monitoring of all your MariaDB SkySQL server deployments: Enterprise Server (Single and Replicated), Xpand, Columnstore, as well as MaxScale. Database administrators can track system resource metrics, such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization in addition to database specific telemetry such as query performance, connections, threads, cluster, replication status, and many others.
```

## Setup

### Installation

To install the MariaDB SkySQL check on your host:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

1. Install the [developer toolkit][10] on any machine.

2. Run `ddev release build mariadb_skysql` to build the package.

3. [Download the Datadog Agent][2].

4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and
 run `datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-mariadb_skysql==0.0.1`

>  This command assumes that the build directory is in ./integration-extras/mariadb_skysql/dist. You may need to modify this path to match your agent environment settings.

Reviewer 3: I believe the customer installing this would just have to run a simple install command, like:

`datadog-agent integration install -t datadog-mariadb-skysql==1.0.0`

@alopezz can you confirm?

Reviewer 4: Indeed, see https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/use-community-integrations/?tab=agentv721v621#setup

### Configuration

1. Edit the `mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] to start collecting your MariaDB [metrics](#metric-collection). See the [mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml.example][4] for all available configuration options.

2. [Restart the Agent][5].

### Validation

1. [Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `mariadb_skysql` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

> See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by MariaDB SkySQL.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.
```

### Service Checks

> See [service_checks.json][8] for a list of service checks provided by MariaDB SkySQL.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
See [service_checks.json][8] for a list of service checks provided by this integration.
```

### Events

> MariaDB SkySQL does not include any events.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The MariaDB SkySQL check does not include any events.
```

# Agent Check: MariaDB SkySQL

## Overview

This check monitors [MariaDB SkySQL][1]. SkySQL is a multi-cloud database-as-a-service offering from MariaDB Plc.

> Integration with Datadog allows full monitoring of all your MariaDB SkySQL server deployments: Enterprise Server (Single and Replicated), Xpand, Columnstore, as well as MaxScale. Database administrators can track system resource metrics, such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization in addition to database specific telemetry such as query performance, connections, threads, cluster, replication status and many others.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Integration with Datadog allows full monitoring of all your MariaDB SkySQL server deployments: Enterprise Server (Single and Replicated), Xpand, Columnstore, as well as MaxScale. Database administrators can track system resource metrics, such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization in addition to database specific telemetry such as query performance, connections, threads, cluster, replication status, and many others.
```

## Setup

### Installation

To install the MariaDB SkySQL check on your host:

1. Install the [developer toolkit]
(https://docs.datadoghq.com/developers/integrations/new_check_howto/#developer-toolkit)
 on any machine.

2. Run `ddev release build mariadb_skysql` to build the package.

3. [Download the Datadog Agent][2].

4. Upload the build artifact to any host with an Agent and

>  run `datadog-agent integration install -w ./integrations-extras/mariadb_skysql/dist/datadog_mariadb_skysql-0.0.1-py3-none-any.whl`.

Reviewer 2: @alopezz Can you confirm this is the correct command to run an install for the integration? I haven't seen integrations-extras in the path before

Reviewer 2: @alopezz bumping this

Reviewer 4: That is not what we expect customers to run, the usual way is described in https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/use-community-integrations/?tab=agentv721v621#installation.

An example from an existing integration in this repository: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/36addd6564825f144581ab81e6f52d378571c2c7/gitea/README.md?plain=1#L30-L32

Reviewer 2: @mariadb-BorisBesky Can you update the install command to reflect the above? The integration version should be included in replace of <INTEGRATION_VERSION>.

 This command assumes that the build directory is in ./integration-extras/mariadb_skysql/dist. You may need to modify this path to match your agent environment settings.

### Configuration

> 1. Edit the `mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] to start collecting your MariaDB [metrics](#metric-collection). See the [sample mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
1. Edit the `mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] to start collecting your MariaDB [metrics](#metric-collection). See the [mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml.example][4] for all available configuration options.
```

# Agent Check: MariaDB SkySQL

## Overview

> This check monitors [MariaDB SkySQL][1]. SkySQL is a multi-cloud database-as-a-service offering from MariaDB Plc.

Reviewer 2: What does skysql do?

> Integration with DataDog allows full monitoring of all your MariaDB server deployments: Enterprise Server (Single and Replicated), Xpand, Columnstore, as well as MaxScale. Database administrators can track system resource metrics, such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization in addition to database specific telemetry such as query performance, connections, threads, cluster, replication status and many others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Integration with Datadog allows full monitoring of all your MariaDB server deployments: Enterprise Server (Single and Replicated), Xpand, Columnstore, as well as MaxScale. Database administrators can track system resource metrics, such as memory, CPU, disk, and network utilization in addition to database specific telemetry such as query performance, connections, threads, cluster, replication status and many others.
```

 path/to/mariadb_skysql/dist/datadog_mariadb_skysql-<INTEGRATION_VERSION>.whl`.
 e.g.
     datadog-agent integration install -w ./integrations-extras/mariadb_skysql/dist/datadog_mariadb_skysql-0.0.1-py3-none-any.whl

### Configuration

1. Edit the `mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml` file in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent's configuration directory][3] to start collecting your MariaDB [metrics](#metric-collection). See the [sample mariadb_skysql.d/conf.yaml][4] for all available configuration options.

2. [Restart the Agent][5].

### Validation

1. [Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `mariadb_skysql` under the Checks section.

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by MariaDB SkySQL.

### Service Checks

See [service_checks.json][8] for a list of service checks provided by MariaDB SkySQL.

### Events

MariaDB SkySQL does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [MariaDB SkySQL support][9].

[1]: https://skysql.mariadb.com
[2]: https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/faq/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory

> [4]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/mariadb_skysql/datadog_checks/mariadb_skysql/data/conf.yaml.example

Reviewer: This file does not appear to be present.

[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information

> [7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-extras/blob/master/mariadb_skysql/metadata.csv

Reviewer: same with [7] and [8] - I assume the files will be uploaded by the time this page is published?
